I'm just gonna say it Riverdale is one
of the most chaotic shows of all time
there are bear attacks and milkshakes
speakeasies and organ harvesting cults
and satanic tabletop games and that's
just in one season it's time for us to
unravel the madness that is Riverdale's
timeline since all the shows baddies
have hidden agendas and elaborate long
cons it should help to parse out their
motives in real time and yes chilling
Adventures of Sabrina and Katie keen are
in the same universe but we have to skip
them this time cuz just trust us there's
enough ground to cover as it is if you
want to see those shout them out in the
comments and subscribe to cinematic
ëcause there's a chance we'll revisit
this universe someday 1940s to 1990s our
story begins not with any of the classic
Archie gang but with some dude named
general Augustus Pickens the history
books say that he founded Riverdale in
1941 but that's not the whole truth
Barnabas B blossom actually paid him off
to pillage the land already occupied by
the obtained apeople and so Pickens
slaughters hundreds of men women and
children in mere minutes after claiming
the land Pickens gets a statue in his
honor while the attained of people are
pushed into the south side of town those
who survive Pickens Massacre rallied
together and formed the south side
serpents to keep their people together
meanwhile Barnabas B blossoms family
prospers they open blossom maple farms
monopolizing the illustrious syrup
industry multiplying their already
substantial wealth but the family's
greed gets the better of them one of the
blossom brothers tries to murder the
other so that he can keep the family
fortune but the other kills him in
self-defense the living brother changes
his last name to Cooper and splits from
the rest of the blossom clan resulting a
feud between the families in the 1970s
Jim Conway discovers the truth about the
Cooper family and blackmails Lewis
Cooper Betty's future grandfather Lewis
does not want his family sins coming to
light though so he murders Conway and
his entire family to keep them quiet
little does he realized that young
Joseph Conway escapes and he changes his
name to Joseph Svendsen the lesson is if
you mess up in Riverdale just change
your name and call it a day I guess
historical records what's that Lewis
becomes known as the Riverdale Reaper
and the other towns folk mob together to
bring the reaper to justice but Svendsen
implicates the wrong man so Lewis Cooper
walks free around this time the troubled
patients at the sisters of quiet mercy
invent Griffin's and gargoyles
it's a fantasy game that helps them cope
with
illusions of an entity known as the
gargoyle King the nuns catch on to the
game and exploit it to control their
patience though the game is never meant
to leave the group home the blossom
family adopts a little girl named
Penelope from the sisters of quiet mercy
she's excited to have a new home but
soon finds out that the blossoms are
just grooming her into a child bride for
young Clifford blossom and they only
adopted her because of her red hair but
Clifford isn't even the true heir to
blossom maple farms that's his identical
twin brother Claudius when the brothers
turned 14 Clifford warns Claudius of a
family curse that sees one brother
killing the other fearful for his life
Claudius leaves home and joins the
Merchant Marines while Clifford becomes
the new heir in the 1990s Penelope makes
an unlikely group of friends who you may
know as all of the main characters
parents Fred Andrews F P Jones Alice
Smith Hermione Gomez and Sierra Samuels
they all find themselves in Riverdale
high detention together slowly opening
up about all of their dreams and their
traumas almost kind of like a midnight
club so that's what they call themselves
in those detention days Penelope
introduces the squad to Griffin's and
gargoyles and they start sneaking into
the school at night to play it
eventually they abandon the tabletop
game entirely and go into full-on
role-playing on the eve of their big
ascension party the entire Club meets to
celebrate and gets high on fizzell rocks
a hallucinatory drug Hyrum Lodge Tom
Keller Mary mantel and Daryl doily also
show up but no one can figure out who
invited them to the party in the first
place Alice bails because she's pregnant
with FPS baby and can't partake well
she's gone principled featherbed comes
back into the school and gets poisoned
by Penelope
he's later found dead in a broom closet
his lips stained blue to avoid suspicion
the midnight club his fans and they all
go their separate ways
FP leaves his abusive novelist father
and joins the Southside serpents while
Alice begins to date Hal Cooper the son
of the Riverdale Reaper Lewis Cooper at
the homecoming dance Hal and Alice are
announced king and queen right before
Alice reveals that she's pregnant with
his baby they have a big fight so then
she goes to stay at the sisters of quiet
mercy for several months she then gives
birth to her son Charles Smith and the
nuns put him up for adoption
mm to 2017 fast-forward to 2001 and the
rest of the midnight club of kids at the
age of four Allison house daughter Betty
meets Fred's son Archie and they become
best friends in second grade Betty
tutors Archie to ensure that they stay
in the same class together
Archie is so grateful that he proposes
to her but she tells him to wait until
they turn
oh and Betty also bludgeons the family
cat caramel to death with a rock so
maybe she's such a good moral model
after all
Archie's other best friend is F P son
Jughead their dads co-founded Andrews
construction together but fred is forced
to fire FP when he falls into a life of
crime
FP turns to booze to help him cope which
tears the Jones family apart around 2015
Archie's parents also split up and his
mom Molly Ringwald moves to Chicago
meanwhile the blosum family is as messed
up as ever
Clifford blossom has been using the
maple farms as a cover to deal drugs
Penelope tells their children twins
Jason and Cheryl ghost stories about the
sugar man in order to protect them from
Clifford's dangerous business life when
Jason gets older he enters a
relationship with Polly Cooper Betty's
sister their parents disapprove of it
though and they forced the young Romeo
and Juliet apart that is until Polly
learns that she's pregnant with Jason's
child between that and Clifford's drug
dealing the two decide to run away to a
place called the farm but they need some
extra cash for the trip so Jason strikes
up a drug delivery deal with the
Southside serpents with that taken care
of he and Cheryl plan to fake his death
they go out on Sweetwater River and
staged a boating accident so that Cheryl
can report that he drowned of course
Jason actually swims across the river to
safety but when he makes it to the other
side the serpents abduct him clifford
hired him because he was worried about
his son spilling the truth of blossom
maple farms so he shoots Jason in the
head and the Serpent's including FP
plant the body back at Sweetwater River
Polly has no idea that any of this
occurs she's having some issues of her
own
how knows that Polly and Jason are
second cousins so he tries to force her
to have an abortion
the Cooper's have her sent away to the
sisters of quiet Mercy and lie to Betty
about the reason that same summer Archie
and Jughead have a falling-out
Archie cancels their fourth of July road
trip to spend time with Geraldine
Grundy's music teacher they're having a
super creepy and illegal affair
alienated by his only true friend
Jughead starts to write a book about
Riverdale and Jason's disappearance and
that's where the show starts weren't the
classic Archie comics just about like
being in high school and two girls
having a crush on Archie and playing in
a band sometimes and also I hated Reggie
and was the worst where did all this
grim dark stuff come from 2017 to 2018
sophomore year at the end of this cruel
summer Hermione Lodge moves back to
Riverdale with her daughter
Veronica Archie quickly falls for
Veronica sprinkling some sweet sweet CW
romantic tension between her and Betty
who is also in love with Archie ah
there's that love triangle finally
there's no clean way to cover all of the
love triangles on this show so let's
just say that Archie and Veronica hook
up and so do Betty and Jughead and
sometimes they break up but mostly they
don't and anyway Jason's body turns up
at Sweetwater River gunshot on all which
launches an investigation into his
murder
Archie fears that his secret
relationship with Miss Grundy will be
revealed but when Alice Cooper not that
one finds out she blackmails miss Grundy
into leaving town after some snooping
and some dark role-playing betty learns
that her sister and Jason were engaged
so she visits Polly at the sisters of
quiet mercy she tells Polly what
happened to Jason so Polly flees the
group home and stays with the blossoms
to dig out more clues the evidence
connects FP to the crime so he gets
arrested but Betty and Jughead keep up
their search they find Jason's varsity
jacket which contains video evidence
that it was Clifford who killed Jason
they report Clifford to the police but
by the time they arrive he's dead it
looks like a suicide but he was actually
killed by Penelope after she learned
that he killed Jason anyway Cheryl is so
overwhelmed with the recent ongoings in
her family that she tries to drown
herself but Archie punches through ice
and saves her then Cheryl burns her
house down because the writers just
won't give her a break
after Jason's death the other Riverdale
parents ignore Penelope on top of that
she's still traumatized about her
childhood grooming so she teams up with
Hal Cooper who has those Riverdale
Reaper genes to take revenge against
Riverdale their plan is to hunt those
sinners who have allowed the shadows
underneath the town to thrive Pal dons a
mask becoming the black hood and starts
his reign by punishing Fred Andrews for
his adultery under the guise of a
robbery he shoots Fred but Archie is
there to save him why could goes on to
kill Geraldine Grundy from messing
around with Archie and he tries to kill
moose and midge for doing Riverdale's
hot new drug jingle-jangle
in response to these attacks Archie
founds the red circle a vigilante group
of jocks and other shirtless guys who
call out black hood though Archie is
forced to disband the group he's still
out to catch black hoods so he gets real
chummy with Hiram Lodge Veronica's
mobster dad who just got out of jail
Hiram's come to River Delta buy up all
the property on the south side and use
the real estate to fuel his drug dealing
operations yes he's a drug dealer of
course he's a drug dealer
every big business in Riverdale is a
front for a drug-dealing operation and
that includes South Side High and
speaking of since FP is still in prison
Jughead has been living with a foster
family and attending Southside high
school he meets Tony topaz a serpent
girl who helps him navigate the
wonderful world of gang life they have a
brief fling while he and Betty are
broken up and then Tony moves on to
Cheryl since Cheryl's mom is far and
away the most evil character on the show
she sends Cheryl away to conversion
therapy at the sisters of quiet mercy
like mother like daughter I guess Tony
and Veronica break her out and then they
all go off and perform carry the musical
FP also gets out of jail and reclaims
leadership of the serpent's so Betty
celebrates with a really awkward pole
dance
there's your serpent update now let's
get back to Hyrum he actually schemed to
tear Southside hide down and build Lodge
Detention Center in its place it's a
privatized prison that also doubles as a
drug lab to make fizzle rocks but
besides that though Hyrum is a totally
cool dad he invites bug head and var
cheetah take a vacation to his lake
house the lodge lodge there's this weird
cross couple fanservice kiss and then
when burglars break in one of Hiram's
henchmen shows up to protect the kids he
kills one of the burglars a man named
Cassidy Bullock and that becomes
important later back in black hood world
Hal tries to recruit his daughter into
his killer campaign by threatening her
family you know his family from here
it's a cat-and-mouse game between the
two as Betty tries to uncover his
identity along the way Robert Phillips
aka sugar man the jingle jangle dealer
midge and Joseph Svendsen all go down as
if that's not enough drama for the
Cooper family poly returns she's been at
the farm where she gave birth to her and
Jason's twins Juniper and Dagwood but
Paulie is so indoctrinated by the farm
that she doesn't want anything to do
with her family this inspires Betty to
track down Charles Smith Alison F peas
long-lost son they find him but it turns
out that he's just an imposter who
claims to have killed the real Charles
that's not true either though the real
Charles Smith is still alive and in a
romantic relationship with chick but
Betty doesn't know that so she hands him
over to the black hood to punish him for
his alleged crime sensing a kinship with
chick black hood Hal decides to spare
his life
Betty notices her father's been
suspiciously absence so she suspects
that he's the black hood finally at last
Hal reveals his identity to her and
Alice and attacks them but Betty staves
them off long enough for the police to
arrive
Hal gets arrested Jughead is appointed
the new king of the serpents and Cheryl
becomes part of the gang and Hermoine
Lodge becomes the mayor of Riverdale so
everything is looking to be I don't know
Oh normal is this normal is this what
being in a small town is like did
whatever it's too bad that Hiram has
Archie falsely arrested for the murder
of Cassidy Bullock he's trying to get
back at Veronica for putting Archie
before the family so told you the fan
service pool episode mattered twenty
eighteen to twenty nineteen junior year
when he's not conspiring with chick the
real Charles Smith is an FBI agent he's
been busy building a case against cult
leader Edgar ever never and his cult
called the farm you know the place where
Polly's been living
he's been hypnotizing his followers into
seeing their dead loved ones and then
harvesting their organs to sell on the
black market Agent Smith reaches out to
his biological mom to help him
infiltrate the farm from the inside
since Alice's daughter is already so
deeply entwined in the cult she has ax
men she joins Paulie and the two of them
levitate babies above a fire all the
live long day
meanwhile Archie's murder trial carries
on throughout the summer eventually
resulting in a plea deal he gets two
years at the Leopold and Loeb juvenile
detention center where Hiram makes his
life a living hell
yes even in spite of the jailhouse rock
scene under Hiram's direction the warden
gets Archie into an underground boxing
Fight Club where the rich can bet on
their fighters with the help of his
friends and the fashion-forward legal
representative moronica posh Archie
escapes prison and Veronica proves his
innocence also Veronica owns a speakeasy
now it's that too little too late for
virtue though so Archie and Jughead skip
town while jugheads gone the serpents
start dealing fizzle rocks spreading the
epidemic in other news Betty has a new
mystery on our hands
after how Cooper's arrest Penelope made
chicken to her new pawn she dyed his
hair red so that he'd be a proper
blossom then dressed him up as The
Gargoyle King from her Griffin's and
gargoyles days the two of them bring the
boardgame back to Riverdale high and the
madness spreads like wildfire just as it
did in the 1990s so after the deaths of
Dilton doily and Ben button and what
appears to be some sort of gargoyle King
related ritual Betty is on the case she
learns about the Midnight Club from
Alice and begins to suspect that one of
their parents is responsible both for
principal featherheads death in the past
and the resurgence of the game in the
present she continues to dig but the
gargoyle King arrives at her house and
tells her to knock it off with a very
strong message Alyson Polly seek refuge
at the farm for safety but Betty isn't
about that cult life so Alice ships her
to the sisters of quiet Mercy once she's
there she realizes that the nuns are
testing Hiram's fizzell rocks on the
patients who are all hooked on Griffin's
and gargoyles she busts all the patients
out and takes them home with her but
Hiram's fell
rocks have been affecting more than just
the patient's he's inadvertently been
flooding the town's water supply with
drugs from his factory causing people
from all over town to break out in
seizures since hermione is the mayor he
has her quarantine riverdale until he
can secretly fix the problem during the
quarantine archie holds up in a cabin
and gets attacked by a bear yes really
then heads back to town to stop Hiram
Betty's been trying to get the sisters
to testify against Hiram too but that
plan falls apart when they all poison
themselves with blue poison things sort
of work out in the end though hermione
hires FP to shoot Hiram and appoints him
town sheriff
Hiram recovers he and Archie bury the
hatchet and then they all go off and
perform Heather's the musical but like
he's still making that Lodge detention
center so well during a prisoner
transport to the center a horrific crash
allows Hal Cooper to escape he dons the
black hood once again and attacks Betty
on prom night she escapes but finally
decides to take Alice up on her invite
to the farm while there Betty realizes
that the firm has been drugging and
stealing organs from its residents that
has nothing to do with Griffin's and
gargoyles it's just another crazy thing
that's going on we already mentioned it
earlier
Betty's next in line to get her organs
taken but before she can get dissected
Penelope blossom sweeps her away she's
got bigger plans for our core for she
invites Archie Veronica and Jughead to
join Betty at a big evil dinner where
she reveals all of her big evil plans to
them you know revenge and the black hood
and the gargoyle King just every
mysterious ongoing since Jason's death
then she challenges them to complete one
final quest and win riff ins and
gargoyles they have to survive a night
in the woods which includes fighting a
man bear drinking poison dueling the
gargoyle King and finally a
confrontation with black hood Betty
refuses to kill her own father so
Penelope just does it for her she's
about to do the same to Archie and his
friends until Sheryl and Tony arrived
with the serpents and the pretty poisons
to save them - oh yeah the pretty
poisons are basically Tony's spin-off of
the Southside serpents Penelope escapes
the gangs and the kids live to fight
another day
both Hermione and Hiram are arrested for
their many petty crimes
about time and finally maybe things can
get back to normal 2019 to 2020 senior
year on the 4th of July 2 years since
Jason's disappearance Fred Andrews is
tragically struck and killed after
pushing a woman out of the way of a
reckless driver
Archie meets the man responsible for the
accident and forgives him in celebration
of Fred's life
Riverdale dedicates the
Independence Day parade to him going
into senior year Archie's latest
endeavor is to convert the El Royale gym
into a community center for
disadvantaged kids
unfortunately Dodgers been using the
kids as minions Jughead attends
Stonewall Prep and reunites with his
estranged grandfather while Betty is
still working with Agent Smith to take
down the newly relocated farm with help
from the FBI Betty and Alice kill Edgar
ever never and busts all of the farm e's
to safety springboarding off that
success Betty joins a junior FBI
training program with Kevin and while
all of that is happening Hermione and
Hyrum have been having them trials
Veronica's sister sure mosa comes to
town and gets Hyrum exonerated for all
of his crimes again then he runs for
mayor of Riverdale secures the vote and
opens a rum business because of course
he does flash-forward to spring break
Veronica and Archie find Betty bloodied
rock in hand with jugheads bludgeoned
body on the ground in front of her the
three of them burned all of their
clothes including jugheads iconic crown
beanie and vowed to never speak of the
night's events a search party finds
jugheads body and Archie Veronica and
Betty all get arrested for his murder
but we still have no idea what
transpired that night so looks like we
haven't solved all the mysteries of
Riverdale just yet leave your
predictions in the comments below and
make sure to subscribe to cinematic up
I've been Jacob and thanks for watching
[Music]